# Groove Journal - CS340 DATABASE PROJECT (Group 29- Team Erlenmeyer)

Groove Journal is a database for your vinyl record collection that emphasizes listening to your records and writing journal entries about each listening experience.

This database implementation project is in fulfillment of the 10-week collaborative portfolio project requirement of CS340 - Intro Databases. All development, design, and documentation for this project were completed collaboratively by Antonio Olaguer II and Jorge Rodriguez.

**Link to Project** : http://classwork.engr.oregonstate.edu:15506/

## Tech Stack

- HTML
- CSS
- Flask
- MySQL
  - mysql-connector-python
- Bootstrap
- Python
- JS
  - jquery

## Citations

- For Project Directory Organization - Starter directory structure adapted from Antonio's on-going personal React project [Patches](https://github.com/AntonioIIOlaguer/Patches/tree/main/patches-backend/src) and internal implementation of some microservices for [Keyfy](https://github.com/AntonioIIOlaguer/keyfy). With assistance of Github Copilot, to use proper Flask/Python conventions for project management.
- For Overall Website UI Design - Taken inspiration from ShapingRain's free landing page template [Namari](https://themewagon.github.io/namari/)
  - Hero Banner - Generated by MidJourney
- For Most Bootstrap CSS components -Bootstrap components and structure adapted from https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/getting-started/introduction/
  - Icons from https://icons.getbootstrap.com/
- For the dynamic track addition in add_album.html - Github Copilot was to used to gave examples of jquery statements.
  - Prompt: 'Show an example code snippet that uses jquery to dynamically add form field with incrementing name attributes on button click.'
  - Used with discretion and modified to fit project needs.
- For implementing dynamic hiding of artist section when a selected track exist in the DB in add_album.html- Github Copilot was utilized for code generation of it's implementation.
  - Prompt: 'Show an example code snippet that uss jquery to dynamically add form field to a form when a button is clicked.'
  - Prompt: 'Give this DOM tree, \<insert DOM tree here\> select the input fields containing artist information
    and hide them when the input field for track name matches a value from the datalist, show them otherwise.'
  - Used with discretion and modified to fit project needs.
- For Database Schema creation - Initial database schema creation and reset procedure inspired by OSU CS340 course materials.
